Thank you very much for participating and for coming through with us today. We are going
to reflect on the teachings of our greatest teachers, for the Shakyamuni, and all the great
masters, great practitioners, to really activate these teachings throughout the centuries and
throughout the younger generations. Today, we are again following their footsteps,
accurately that's what they did, and kind of re-standing our courage and commitment
and confidence in the Dharma with joy and appreciation. Therefore, this is one of, again,
a beautiful moment in our lives. Life is precious. Life is precious. Life is also, in one way,
in a short time. But so meaningful in this life, this time, in these circumstances,
is really wonderful. It's not just the only way of making a matter of beauty with it.
For our own kind of small goal or kind of an excluded situation. But we are combining.
The greatest teachers, the brother Shakyamuni's teaching, both each other,
is the best thing of all living beings. According to our best capabilities,
we can't line up to that direction. Truly, it is wonderful. It's beautiful.
Because it is kindness, it's compassion, it's respect and appreciation to everyone.
Life brings peace and harmonious. Locally and largely. And all the beings beyond the boundaries.
Truly, that is so sweet. So good. There is no single living beings don't like happiness and peace.
And they appreciate it. We are lining up to that direction. And we practice it.
Therefore, it is so sweet and so wonderful. Again, for those reasons,
always in the teaching seat, activating the motivations. Activating the motivations.
This is not just a casual talk. Kind of just saying it is really touching to the nugget, to the
root.
Every, our activities, our actions, all start with mind, motivation.
There is no single one activity that does not really start with mind.
Unless something is kind of drunk or intoxicated or out of mind, then maybe that.
But otherwise, every action what we do, it is activated, accelerated,
it is fueled up by how this invisible mind or monkey mind, it is. Therefore, to correct it, to
activate it is the most important.
When we practice it down, that's what all God has said and every one of us says.
So motivation is so important. And what in the teaching seat, and you all know,
I am a reminder actually, you all know this. It is not something that I am talking new things that
we never heard, or you never heard.
If mind is good, activity will be good. That means mind is virtuous, the activity will be virtuous.
And all mind, if mind is good, activity will be positive.
If mind is bad, no matter how looks and appears, it is bad.
There is no two different ways to go. It is all dependent within our mind.
Therefore, in the teaching always, activated the motivation of the good.
It is also what we activated the good because we have so many minds. There is not just one or two
minds.
There are so many conceptions aligned up to the invisible status to activate it.
Every term that all invisible, those mind, mental activity aligned, our mental invisible status,
every directed that in the good's positive, they all turn into good.
And no one is directed that, do good mind, do bad mind, no one except one's own son.
Therefore, good motivation is the key. What we like to get that is all.
It is completely dependent upon that. So therefore, activate the good motivations.
And that good motivation, as you all know, and we said, and I said, and you all know,
I mean, this is, again, joyful and appreciative.
Remote joy, more appreciative. Even in life, we have difficulty with these things.
But there are so many reasons to be happy in joy.
And plus, we have this beautiful life, beautiful endowments or 18 endowments with all luckiness.
Activated that with gratitude, graceful, gratitude.
Activated that, that when we do that, that is dharma.
That is not just dharma, that is the heart, condition, dharma, the essential of dharma.
Joy and appreciation. To our son, joy and appreciation of the situation and the circumstance that
we are surrounded by.
And then that joy and appreciation is not just only kind of only our son's joy,
but that you kind of activate that joy and swinging that to the power beyond of our really evil
capabilities
of the physical or verbal belief, then bodhicam, bodhicam, remote joy, bodhicam attitude.
The Materia, I'm going to reflect the teaching of the great sikkhya Buddha Kedemuni,
a lineage master's.
May that become one of the great cause to bring the joy and the peace, happiness for all living
beings
and remove their suffering and the difficulty, the cause of the suffering and the difficulty from
ever.
Really wishing that strongly, with courage and commitment, confidence, kind of like fairnessness
like this,
without any blockage of this, kind of like strenghy or kind of limited boundaries. Really wish that
.
That is known as bodhicam. You all know that.
And then in the teaching always, you also see the beautiful stages of every three things.
According to the Buddha teaching and according to all the great masters, nature is so pure, perfect
.
And all the thousands are known as the three various stages, and we use so many people.
We all are very unpractical. We know that.
When we do the visualization, we see ourselves as Buddha.
We see the song as our, the song of Buddha, the voice of the enlightenment.
Whole medulla is like Buddha's status. Bring up that realization.
That is not just pertaining to which reality it is.
That's stated according to the teaching.
We don't see that now because of the cataracts of the duality, publication.
We don't see. When we remove the cataracts of duality by our practices, that realization is right
here.
And for that reason, great master, his own Dunu Rumel said, one of his last teachings, he said,
said that the beautiful pure land, the beautiful, lovely pure land is right with you.
And we put it by our dualities. He really said in his teachings, this was his dreams.
That, as many of you may have read that booklet, which is translated.
And what in the teaching is it?
[speaking in foreign language]
Have you really liked to have discovered that, called pure land?
Put it by our dualities.
If you put it by our duality, the beautiful, lovely, comfortable pure land is right with you.
And that teaching is it.
And I'm just translating it roughly.
But you can, they've translated this teaching to translate it.
You can look at it. That is really, that's it.
I mean, it's everything, the beauty, the status.
So bring up that, also at least to open that door toward that direction is so important.
We go forward and then we reflect the teaching.
This teaching is, of course, we've been kind of continuing this spring.
This spring, we had great opportunity to reconnect back to the teaching
of the great teacher of his own, the Dujurumuji.
And we went through this.
I mean, his own Dujurumuji.
We write teachings that requires entirely Buddha teaching, or Nanyana teachings.
Entire Buddha teaching.
Do you want his teaching?
And all the way with the Jnana teaching, and all the way with Dzogchen, Ati-Yoga teachings.
But we went this teaching.
Which is translated here, here, what is said here.
Here, you all know.
The heart advice for the 14th month by his own Dujurumuji.
Heart advice for the 14th month.
This is one of his kind of condensed, simple, dreaded, pit-enstructing teachings.
And it is, it is so simple, conventional thought.
Particularly, this is really teaching, why I'm saying pit-enstructing.
Because those people who really like to put in practice, into practices.
It is a very beautiful instruction.
That contains the essence of the meaning of the Buddha teachings.
All the teaching of the entire, all those great master teachings here.
How to practice.
How to activate it.
How to bring the realization.
Not just the intellectual status.
Not God can't just say they can't talk it.
But observing the teaching, into the heart and brain the realization.
As Buddha did, as Guru Pemma Sambago, all those great master achieved.
And his own Dzogchen himself.
That's what they follow that.
That's why his heart advice.
From his heart, his realization.
What he practiced, what he meditated.
And what he actually liked.
His sharing that.
To those who are fortunate practices.
We are all fortunate practices.
According to the teaching of the Buddha Dhanu, generally obtaining the 18 colleges of the human
life.
It's so precious.
With that, the strength in the mind, some renewals.
Interest in the joy and the devotee to Dharma is so spacious.
So our physical luxuries is we have the luxury of the physical of the eating endowment.
We have luxuries of the mental state of the earth.
Joy and the devotee to Dharma.
So that means our body is fortunate.
Our mind is fortunate if I use that word.
How lucky we are.
This lucky and this fortunate not just came by accidentally or itself.
Truly we earn that.
Our past deeds.
According to the Buddha Dzogchen, there's nothing is happening with the cause and affectors.
Without cause and condition.
If you see the good result, that tells there is good cause and good condition.
Support to bring that growth.
So, for us in our life, our situation is quite good.
That means we need good.
But that's not enough.
We have to climb up.
We have to climb widely and continually move.
We have to advance.
Advance for ourselves, advance for all the beings.
That is our commitment.
What kind of commitment maybe you think?
Both each other.
Believe many of you, we all got the bodhicata vow.
Not just a rapidly vow, we did bodhicata vow eagerly.
Eager.
Bodhicata vow is not just a kind of like symbolic, kind of like melodic, ceremonial things.
It is really making commitment.
Commitment to ourself.
We are never going to fail down our compassion, our loving kindness, our thought, and correlating
commitment.
Or to benefit one's own self, or to benefit all the living beings.
We met that commitment.
We said when we take bodhicata vow, what do we say?
From today, now on, until I reach enlightenment and all the sentient beings are freed from the
sufferings,
I will follow exactly you, Buddhas, in the bodhisattvas of death.
I will do everything what you did.
That is it.
Clearly with our mind.
We don't disturb by mind.
With the chemicals or toxicities, or pressured by someone, warm, truly, openly, joyfully,
we will say that today we will follow your footsteps.
That is bodhicata.
Brahma is bodhicata.
Again, it is bodhicata.
It is not something strange or anything.
We reactivate our compassion, our goodness, our loving kindness, that combined commitment.
And call it with it.
Therefore, it is already a wonderful situation, wonderful things.
For those reasons, we are talking about this.
In this teaching, again, we went this last time, so I'm going today where we started last time.
We went through this.
This, until this first line, from first line, first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth lines.
We went through the sixth lines.
We went through this, like, trust that three jubils are the infallible source for rafuddhi.
We went through the, kind of, little bit, details of the meaning of the rafuddhi.
Details of the Buddha, or the object of rafuddhi.
Details, little bit, details of the, about the Buddha.
Little bit, detail of the dharma.
Little bit, detail of the sandals.
One bit of the rafuddhi, again, in kumahayana teaching, when we tell rafuddhi,
we say, even taking rafuddhi is best of compassion.
Taking all living beings, there, I like to help every being, everyone,
and therefore, I'm going to take rafuddhi.
So, this is best of the bodhijata.
So, in that sense, bodhijata is so important, we went, then bodhijata.
After rafuddhi, we went bodhijata.
When you come to the bodhijata, bodhijata can be, not can be, it's divided into two.
Wishing bodhijata and actualizing bodhijata.
We went, those fight thoroughly, of each of those.
When you come to the actualizing bodhijata, then what is that?
Then that is six paramatas.
We went six paramatas, all those six paramatas.
Again, quite kind of thoroughly, and of course, there's many things to say there,
but quite thoroughly of those six paramatas.
Again, the six paramatas is, vishin bodhijata is, essence of vishin bodhijata
is called boneless, as you all know.
That is boneless love, boneless compassion, boneless joy, and boneless equanimities.
And that means love, compassion, joy or rejoice, and equanimity.
Those are called boneless.
How do that practice? I think many of you already know.
First, boneless joy.
May all living beings have a happiness and a cause of happiness.
And that is loving kindness, boneless love.
And the second is, may all living beings
prefer suffering, cause of suffering.
That is boneless compassion.
And then, third one, boneless rejoice of joy.
May all living beings are never separated
from the supreme joy, which is without suffering.
That is simple rejoice of joy.
May every living being have the great realization of equanimity
for the attachment to the close ones, rejection to the others.
Others, and that is great economicism.
Those are, in the teaching making,
in a regular grade masters, in Timbasi,
is the essence of the vishin bodhijata.
Essence.
Sukha, when we have the time, even we can chime.
Even you are not on a kind of like, on your meditate and Christian spirit.
Have you chime those really prayers?
Reflection meaning to those words is so powerful, so special.
It's so powerful.
Accumulating the merit and purifying of all obstacles.
Really, casually, kind of so simple, kind of like very quietly,
just reflecting.
May all living beings have happiness and a cause of happiness.
That means may all living beings have the earth of peace and cause of peace.
May all living beings have the harmony and the cause of the harmonious.
Have you, have behind that.
That is not pertaining practices.
They are calling Buddhism, that is heart of the practices.
Also so sweet, it has no kind of like,
the stains of the grass or ego cleanings.
Self-importance.
No self-importance, self-centred mind.
May all living beings have the happiness and the cause of happiness.
May all living beings have peace and cause of peace.
May all living beings have the harmony and the cause of harmonious.
Artury does prayers wisely, cause and resolve.
And when you have the cause of that,
that resolve last long time or the fruit last long time.
So we pray in that.
So all, and that the essence of the wishing body.
In any teaching, say it, how you exercise,
train your mind of the wishing body, do that.
It is so powerful, as I say, in the teaching, Buddha teaching.
It is instantly glorified obscuration, negativities.
It brings the instant light in our mind and heart.
And then when that happens, it will bring us to joy and peace, happiness.
What we are guiding, it will bring us to us.
This is not just a making story, a period, a methodology.
You can witness to yourself, or we can witness to ourselves.
If we find that, stay our mind to that stage and we find those prayers.
You see what change comes.
And that means we change all those cells of the bloaters,
breathing, the whole circle.
The entitlement, the allow of the gallets of the body is really transforming.
It is so healing, powerful healing, purpose, strength.
Different healing, all the emotions, negativities.
Those like, those emotions, whatever the resolution is left, it will heal.
We don't like to stay in that shadow, in that darkness forever.
We don't like to leave this body with that shadow in a dark way.
We have to clean the body by that.
That is known as Buddhism, practicing Dharma.
That is Dharma, those are essential Dharma, the central of Dharma's Dharma.
Then with this thought, now let's help to all the sentient beings.
Let's help to stay the beings, with that attitude, that attitude.
Not with the ego cleaning, not with the self-important,
but let's help to the other beings.
Then, the six paramatas, we went to those six paramatas.
Six paramatas, again I listed that, and we put the old,
generalized paramatas, morality paramatas, patience paramatas,
and then joyful effort to the virtuous paramatas, concentration paramatas.
And then, Panyak paramata, or the wisdom paramatas.
Those are known as six paramatas.
All are vast and rooted and inseparable with the poor, boundless.
Generous paramata is inseparable with the poor, boundless.
Morality paramata is inseparably with the poor, boundless.
Poor, boundless is the nutrition of the six paramatas.
All poor, boundless is the vitality of the six paramatas, all that.
And then, of course, this deters in the divisions and all that extends,
but all is rooted to the poor, boundless.
If we don't count the poor, boundless, we count the,
kind of bring down, boiling down, then it's compassion.
It's compassion. All is best on the compassion.
Six paramatas is best absolutely on the compassion.
That is what all these bodhisattas, bodhisattas and bodhisattva activities.
And we went through those.
Today, we go on this now.
Next one is, is, is, what's called the next line, and so not, so.
And, and do not be mistaken about the resolve of the virtues and unvirtues, actions, actions.
And then, as well as here, in particular, devoted to the root teachers.
Next one is love and affection for the Samaya brothers and sisters.
And the bodhisattva of the compassion towards all mothers and beings.
And the reducer of the grasping due to the knowledge that all,
all, uh, completed things are impermanence.
And the next one, this is summaries.
Are known as the poor, everlasting wealth of the practitioner
and should be regarded as indispensable.
So these poor or pious are so important, they are the wealth of the practitioners.
And a great master, his son, the dujalum, which he highlighted that,
which is not his thing, but just every master's in the teaching state.
These poor or pious, what mind?
Pious, what means pious?
Pious, I'm talking about this one too.
Do not mistake about the result and unvirtues, actions.
If you count that one, it's there to become pious.
If you count every day as in the teaching state, all those are pious, poor.
These poor or pious are so important.
It's important during the practices, that means during the meditation practices,
this is important during the post-meditation, when you're not meditating,
particularly, or when we are in war.
War, it is all, always remember this, this four or five.
The big one is cause and effect that are inevitable.
All right, that's the beginning time.
This cause and effect are inevitable, therefore, our actions always be thoughtful,
mindful, whatever we do, it has resolved.
We do something, whatever it echoes back, back, activities, everything.
This is called law of karma. In the Buddha teaching, it's called law of karma.
Karma can be divided, actually, how on death, produced, there's two ways.
It's called mental activities and physical verbal activities.
If I say more, another way, the mental karma and verbal karma and physical karma.
Karma is action, so mental action, physical action, verbal action.
This action can be divided in the Buddha teaching, three actions.
Positive action, negative action, and neutral actions.
And so, positive action, negative action, has definitely big result, big consequence.
Neutral is a letter, this sense is so neither positive nor negative, it has less effect, less
consequence.
But positive and negative are really so, always there is consequence behind.
Even we didn't see that, like that moment, according to Buddhism, it is.
And what the teaching says, everything, what we experience, what we go through, is karma.
It is karma, nothing is happening with all the activities.
This karma is not somebody overloaded us, suddenly, or it didn't come from somewhere else.
Or it accidentally appeared.
Karma is all connected to our own actions.
Action of the mind, action of the physical, action of the world.
And mental actions are the cause of the world to those actions, physical, verbal actions.
So therefore, we have to be totally thoughtful, as much as we can.
Even for example, any kind of like, unwholesome mental activities arising in our mind,
not kind of like hovering over that again and again and again and then.
Let it go, let it go.
If it is going over, but it will, of course, depend how that stone is.
Some kind of a strong emotion is odd, like negative emotion is hovering in the mind.
It disturbs all our systems.
As I said earlier, poor, boneless thought will bring such a light in all our system of bodies.
But this negative thought is the same.
It really will bring so many unbeneficial resolve the whole our system of the bodies.
What they call stress force, anxieties, then deep rations, then begin to build self-lamens,
disappointments.
All those counts, one after another, this all is mostly producing, produced by our mind, one's own
mind.
Maybe there is some consequence, but every hand is so well.
Then, those are not going to affect us too much.
That's what is called Bodhisattvas.
Sattva means courageous ones, warriors.
Why? The greatest teacher of Bodhisattva kamuni named warriors.
Sometimes there are so many of those difficulties, troubles, it looks like they are coming from
outside.
And then we cope with that, and then we become, we perish.
We become the victim.
But if you are courageous and strong, and you handle that well without accessing and going on, and
on, and on, and on, on, then you defeat it in a way.
Really. Not in a way of defeating.
You have to do such that, then when you have that attitude, you have more skills, more wisdom, more
capability to handle things.
Ah, you see, so nice.
Therefore, so many of those great masters, looks like they got so many troubles, one after a
greater practice, and really one after another.
But all that subsided, and they are glowing as sunshine in the sky, free from the clothes.
True, they are warriors.
That's what called warriors.
Never affected their body together. Never affected their identity. They call it us. Call us.
So therefore, therefore, how we handle things is so, really so important, so necessary.
Therefore, we are trying to handle things.
But at the same time, whatever activity we start happening, we are always caught.
Mindfulness is our actions.
Karma is what?
Then again, every good letter determines of this karma, then positive mind, negative minds.
Karma is not coming from outside.
It's from all produced by our mind.
As I said, mental activities.
Mental activity reflected to the verbal and physical, then it becomes the full bloom of karma.
The full growth of the karma appears.
And those are positive minds.
What we in the teaching said, positive mind is detachment, loving-kindness, compassion, and wisdom.
Those are the positive minds.
Whatever the activity we did with the verbally, we, and physically, that is positive karma,
positive actions.
And the opposite of those what?
Is ignorance, attachment, and anger.
Anger or combination without those.
What that is produced is mind, mind, and whatever the activity that becomes negative.
These negative ideas are then summarized in the Buddha teaching.
He could highlight those 10 non-virtues.
Those are the naturally negative ideas.
10 non-virtues.
And I'm not going to list that.
You all know that.
We all know that.
So 10, 3 by the voting, 3 on virtues by the voting, 4 on virtues by the verbal, and 3 by the mental
states.
Those are known as 10 non-virtues.
Everything is bad.
But regularly, the 3 mental states, last one, in the Buddha teaching said, that's the very heavy
stones.
When mind is bad, it is bad.
So therefore, these last 3, the 3 minds, have to be really very powerful, that activity.
And then positive, 10 positives, opposite of those 10 virtues, is positive.
All positive, that means this virtue is good.
That result will be good.
Therefore, following those activities, above that, those are the 10 non-virtues, common.
And above that, if you take the vows, because Buddha teaching,
then there's vows, such as Vinaya vows, and Bodhisattva vows, and Varyana vows.
Those are, then, extract.
Additionally, we do against with those.
And we can't completely contradict with that.
Even if we talk vows, or with a single teaching, we talk vow openly,
with a heart, with a clear mind, and we take that against it,
then you become naked with it.
And what you do then? Then purify it. Cleaning with it.
And, in such cases, we do the Hindu practices.
Poor vows for the Varyasattva practices.
Those are so powerful.
With meditation of the Varyasattvas, and even poor vows, as stuck to it in the teaching,
it will clean, it will clean, it will purify.
And the teaching said, as soon as you see some mistakes,
that you've got a weakness of your Samayas, all those obstacles,
immediately trying to purify.
The great master in the teaching said, the great master, Aditya said,
said that, what in the teaching said?
He said, he never, you know, he'd be perfect,
I may be this way, he never had trouble with keeping the vows of the Varyas.
But he had some difficulties of the difficulties of keeping the vows
and the bodies of the vows.
And then, in many other vows, he has quite a little bit more difficult
to keep the vows.
But he said, he never said, even one night, we don't purify, not purify.
So that means, immediately he purified.
We can make mistakes, we had some sort of things,
but not just ignoring that and just going down again and again,
but immediately purify them.
He said, he never accompanied or can't be left overnight without purifying.
This great master said, so this is the relief that we can do,
or even we can do immediately, but as much as we can do,
soon, as soon as possible, it plays with that,
this and our practices.
So that is really about the first one.
So that, this is again, this one is the virtues and the unvirtuous actions,
which should always be thoughtful, whether we are practicing
and whether we are in the world.
But regularly, of course, in the world, we have to be very careful.
But during all the practices, as I said, in the Buddha's teachings,
there are two kinds of activities, mental activities
and verbal and physical activities.
And even during practices, I have some kind of like,
unwholesome thought and mental state, trying to immediately purify.
Notice that and not stay too long, like that.
And then with those thoughts, whatever activity did,
in the world, we are not ready to do any practices,
definitely purify and also careful with mindful steps.
So that is really about these first lines.
The next one is here, particularly devotion to the teachers.
The one to the root teachers.
That, I mean, many of you already know,
we heard these teachings always this.
And in the Buddha's teachings, teachings are so important.
Teachers, particularly known as qualified teachers,
are really so important.
This is not just on the way they are teaching,
but also the ultimate Buddha's teachings.
What is the ultimate Buddha's teaching?
This is what is generally the qualification of the teachers.
There is many different explanation and way to explain
in the teaching, in the Vinaya teaching,
in the Bodhisattva teaching, in the Vedayana teaching.
And that could be simple by maybe I just say,
I am making few times before, so I won't maybe go over that.
But one simple by this is what the great master Chantideva said in the teaching.
There, he said two simple qualities.
The teacher should have two simple qualities.
The always teacher, one who is,
knows very well about the meaning of the Mahayana teachings.
So that means the Buddha teaching.
That is the wisdom aspect.
Wisdom aspect of the knowing the Buddha teaching clearly.
All the teaching.
Second qualification is,
and the vows of the Bodhisattva never going to give up
even the cost of the lives.
Bodhisattva, vows of the Bodhisattva,
or the conduct of the Bodhisattvas, never going to give up
even the cost of the lives.
That means it is Bodhisattva.
Bodhisattva is loving kindness, compassion and wisdom.
So that teacher must have loving kindness,
compassion, wisdom and courage and commitment,
confidence and maintaining valuable teachings.
Exiling teaching, as he said, by that teacher,
whether she or whether he, that mentoring.
That teacher is known as spiritual, perfect friend.
Perfect friend.
Teacher are, whether he or he, are your friend.
Friend.
One who is going to influence you,
when he is going to support you, influence you on the right direction.
Therefore he is going to be a spiritual friend, a virtuous friend.
There is two friends called un-virtuous friends and virtuous friends.
Teacher qualified teacher is a virtuous friend.
Friends.
This teacher can be divided in the teaching set.
That teacher can be divided, that teacher can be divided.
The teacher can be, there is four different teachers.
As mentioned earlier, again I have listed them.
Those are ordinary teacher, or ordinary perfect teacher,
bodhisattva teacher, narmakaya teacher and sambokaya teacher.
So four teachers, ordinary teacher, bodhisattva teacher
and narmakaya teacher, narmakaya Buddha teacher,
sambokaya Buddha teacher, four teachers.
This ordinary teacher, teacher is what I said
in describing qualification that bodhisattva, narmakaya Buddha
and sambokaya Buddha don't have an exam.
It is already qualified.
But sambokaya is the only teacher as grandma's shanti deva said, true godness.
Who knows all the Buddha teachings,
who are going to keep the conduct of the bodhisattva perfectly,
never going to give up even the cost of their lives.
That is the only teacher.
This ordinary is not just a regular ordinary teacher.
In the subject, I saw translated in Indonesia said
perfect ordinary teacher.
So it is a perfect definition, it is very correct.
Extra ordinary, ordinary teachers.
That teacher has those qualities.
If you have that quality of that teacher,
but that is that like in the teaching said,
you got the mining of the gold mining.
You have to trade.
You are right to trade all of the gold mining.
If you are looking to understand of the brain,
some really understand what the Buddha teaching
and it is going to be according to the teaching of the bodhisattva community,
that is really excellent.
For that reason, great teacher bodhisattva community said
in the Pandya Paramana teachings,
that if you like to reach the enlightenment of the Buddhahood,
immediately you contract with the qualified teachers.
Immediately qualified teachers.
This qualified teacher, in the minute teaching says,
oh, you should exam the teachers.
You should listen carefully,
see the conductors and read the lifestyles, all those things.
And then finally you connect with them.
Also, I, the teaching, said that those who really like to do those
and have time to do, have capabilities.
But otherwise, that one who has this,
who knows the Buddha teaching quite well
and maintaining all the teachings that what teaching says,
or what teacher she or he is talking,
talking kind of maintain quite well
and doing the line up to the total that with teaching is,
then it's quite a good teacher, quite a good teacher,
quite a good teacher, and that is that.
You know, one of the teachers said,
for us, for example, for us, only the beings,
when you see only those good teachers is so special.
Through that only special teacher,
we can find the bodhisattva teachers,
we can find the magaya teachers,
we can find some magaya teachers,
with all the contract and post teacher of that only good teacher,
we were never going to get up there to be qualified to the same teaching.
So therefore, when we improve ourselves with the ordinary teacher,
practice and meditate, and then all other teachers really went forward.
This then post teacher,
also in Gohe Garmadana teaching,
those are the six different teachers.
Major, six different teachers.
Teachers, those are our general teachers,
and one who is actually the part,
teacher of the one who is actually the teachings,
one who is educating the teachings,
teacher, one who is educating,
one is always supporting the help and consulting
and kind of clarification and purification,
all the things that teachers,
and one is explaining the meaning of the tenderness
and those big instructions,
and one who is giving the big instructions.
Those are the six different teachers,
which is those all six, that ordinary teachers,
part of ordinary teachers.
These six different teachers is where they explain
the six different individuals,
but it can be all, can be one individual tree.
All can be presented that six different.
So that teacher here,
here teaching, that qualified teacher,
you always have the devotions.
Devotions, they are confident in trust.
Follow with them.
If you find the qualified teacher,
don't linger, don't doubt, don't read it.
Don't turn away.
Turn away from the teacher.
Stay with that.
Ever you like them,
ever you like to improve yourself
through the teaching of the Buddha
or through that teaching,
it's really good.
Otherwise, we're making, again,
missing our opportunities.
And so that is one.
So that means that always careful with our actions,
cause and efforts are inevitable.
And the second is contract with the qualified teacher.
That is, so among these four of the practitioners,
I went maybe roughly one or two.
Also, we are keeping the light,
this is thoughtful with our actions.
Gone.
That means simply always thoughtful with gone,
thoughtful with actions, that thoughts.
And the second is then connect to the lineage,
connect to the teacher.
Keep that connection.
If you like to improve that part,
you should connect.
And keep the connection with joy,
with respect, with appreciation, with devotion.
What any teacher says,
then go and have another teacher say.
Those teachers,
you should honor as like leader,
you should honor as your uncle,
you should honor there as your father,
you should honor as them your mother,
you should honor as your eye, eye,
and you should honor their heart.
See, those are really in teaching said.
You should honor these teachers.
Respect and honor.
If you have that honor,
what any great teacher,
Buddha Chakra Muni said,
in Pandya Paramada teaching,
if you connect with that good teacher,
qualified teacher,
with your devotion and learn and follow that,
you will gain the same achievement,
realization as that teacher has.
Teacher that.
So that's it.
And therefore,
then all the good qualities of the virtues
will rush out from your hidden qualities.
Come up all that.
That is really teaching said.
So that is my brief talk for today.
And then again,
tomorrow we do continue.
So we see how many we can go over this again
as we go in this.
And then,
and I'd like to talk this kind of,
completed this,
he's on the union with the teaching,
which is so special and important.
You know already,
he's translated what they say.
But again,
to remind each other is kind of responsible.
The Sangha member,
we all as a Sangha member,
remind each others,
and kind of refreshing our knowledge
of the Buddha Dharma is really very good.
Good to all the time.
And it is also rituals.
And therefore,
I'm doing this.
I'd like to kind of complete this.
So again,
thank you very much for your participation.
And thank you again.
So much for everything.
Thank you.
Now we do,
again,
just do our evening practice.
If you have time,
please join with us.
We do our evening practice
of the Bhema Samyant Monastery
that we will do.
Together with that,
we do that with practices also.
Like meditation,
practicing,
to the healing practices.
This time,
again,
in general,
in the samsara days,
we have all this trouble.
The sickness of trouble
is one of our troubles in the samsara.
But this time,
it's kind of like very,
kind of a little bit intensified,
like situation of this pandemic.
So at least,
we can put our good intention,
our good meditation,
as well as toad.
Toad,
in the Bhema Samyant Monastery,
is really good for,
that's what we can do
for these purposes.
So in what teaching says,
do everything what you can do,
as your best capabilities.
So pray is our best capabilities
to do to all these different situations.
And also then,
this disease sickness.
So if you have time,
please join us,
with us,
and thank again for very much everybody.
Thank you.